---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: The sorry state of subversion support in Eclipse
author: Martijn Dashorst
author_login: admin
author_email: martijn.dashorst@gmail.com
author_url: http://martijndashorst.com
wordpress_id: 418
wordpress_url: http://martijndashorst.com/blog/2009/05/05/the-sorry-state-of-subversion-support-in-eclipse/
date: '2009-05-05 16:34:35 +0200'
date_gmt: '2009-05-05 15:34:35 +0200'
categories:
- technology
- general
tags:
- eclipse
- Subversion
- Subversive
- Subclipse
- Rant
comments:
- id: 57551
  author: Luis
  author_email: luizsoarez@gmail.com
  author_url: http://undesigned.es/
  date: '2009-05-05 19:01:29 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-05 18:01:29 +0200'
  content: "Hi Martijn.\r\n\r\nYou should try IntellJ Idea, subversion support there
    is bliss. \r\n\r\nIt works perfectly well out of the box, merging is very well
    handled, it supports automatic finding of branches and tags and whatever... It
    just works.\r\n\r\nOh, and there's a free license for open source products.  ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\nLuis"
- id: 57552
  author: Stefan F
  author_email: stf+gravatar@molindo.at
  author_url: http://molindo.at/
  date: '2009-05-06 07:26:52 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 06:26:52 +0200'
  content: "Yes, please give us decent SVN support. Just had to do a fresh install
    after a Subclipse update caused exceptions on each and every click. Now I am using
    Subversive as I was to annoyed to play the ?find all the update sites and correct
    plugin selection? game.\r\n\r\nSee, I feel with you ;)"
- id: 57553
  author: Abel Muiño
  author_email: amuino@gmail.com
  author_url: http://ramblingabout.wordpress.com
  date: '2009-05-06 08:25:15 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 07:25:15 +0200'
  content: "I have used both subclipse (in the past) and subversive (more recently)
    and I found that they \"just work\" (I do not do heavy branching and merging,
    though).\r\n\r\nThe problem with the classes folder... I think that one of the
    bundles in subversive update site just excludes anything generated by JDT. I can
    not tell for sure since I always add the target folder to the svn:exclude (even
    if my IDE does magic, other developers might use the command line). That fixes
    the problem from the start and seems like \"the right thing\".\r\n\r\nBut so many
    people complain about svn support in Eclipse, that I tend to think that there
    must be some truth on that."
- id: 57554
  author: btilford
  author_email: bentilford@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-06 13:44:04 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 12:44:04 +0200'
  content: Easiest way to get it working is not to mess with the update sites. Download
    the Polarian distribution. Still other IDEs have better support.
- id: 57555
  author: ncloud
  author_email: nicholas.cloud@gmail.com
  author_url: http://blog.nicholascloud.com
  date: '2009-05-06 15:07:46 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 14:07:46 +0200'
  content: This is the exact reason I stopped using Zend Studio for PHP -- the Subversion
    support is grossly inferior to NetBeans.
- id: 57556
  author: ncloud
  author_email: nicholas.cloud@gmail.com
  author_url: http://blog.nicholascloud.com
  date: '2009-05-06 15:08:49 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 14:08:49 +0200'
  content: Edit to the previous post... Zend Studio is built on the Eclipse framework
    for those who aren't familiar with the product.
- id: 57557
  author: Chris
  author_email: cabot-sco@pimpmy.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-06 16:34:50 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 15:34:50 +0200'
  content: "Part of the problem is that the Eclipse update system blows.  Every couple
    of months I have to install the same version of Eclipse as something has become
    horribily out of sync and updates begin to fail.  What is equinox and why does
    it keep on failing to update?\r\n\r\nAnd why can't Eclipse just number their releases?
    \ Ganymede?  \"Winter edition\"  WTF?  Just call it v 3.4.1 and be done with it."
- id: 57558
  author: Ivan
  author_email: ivan.lazarte@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-06 19:19:59 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 18:19:59 +0200'
  content: This is so true.  Subversion support is terrible.  I typically dont even
    use Eclipse-based version control tools anymore.  The CVS client was great.  Too
    bad no modern project uses CVS so its pretty irrelevant.
- id: 57559
  author: JGM
  author_email: jason@zenphp.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-06 21:06:30 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-06 20:06:30 +0200'
  content: I install SubClipse, but use it only as an indicator of the project status.  I
    revert to the command line for any actual subversion tasks that need to be done.  Now
    if I could just embed the Windows Powershell into eclipse....
- id: 57560
  author: Mark Phippard
  author_email: markphip@gmail.com
  author_url: http://markphip.blogspot.com/
  date: '2009-05-07 01:03:18 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-07 00:03:18 +0200'
  content: I think SVN support, particularly Subclipse is great.  I've never seen
    these problems.  I do not doubt that you are having them, but where are the links
    to the mailing list threads where you have reported the bugs and sought help?
- id: 57561
  author: Nyarlathotep
  author_email: lala@example.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-07 09:14:00 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-07 08:14:00 +0200'
  content: "I haven't tried subclipse in a long time, so I will speak out of subversive-sight:\r\nIt
    does take 2 update sites for subversive to work. They both are mentioned at the
    website, at the very same page!\r\nbtw: Subversive is based on Subclipse so they
    have a similar structure with the same, flexible, connector approach. The only
    difference may be that subclipse doesn't offer a separate site for the connectors!\r\n\r\nThe
    target folder *is* excluded by subversive JDT extenstion, but not in external
    tools, so just add it to the svn:ignore-list and you don't have any problems with
    it. That's standard subversion functionality, one should be expected to know.
    You can even do this with subversive (and subclipse, I think)!\r\n\r\nSure, both
    plugins aren't perfect and have their quirks, but the problems you mentioned are
    mostly RTFM problems."
- id: 57562
  author: Martijn Dashorst
  author_email: martijn.dashorst@gmail.com
  author_url: http://martijndashorst.com
  date: '2009-05-07 09:29:07 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-07 08:29:07 +0200'
  content: "WTF? What makes you assume that we don't exclude those directories using
    svn:ignore? Before you start claiming RTFM, STF and try to see that others may
    experience bugs you haven't. And why the hell does it require 2 update sites?
    Why not just one? Why isn't it the default SCM implementation that ships with
    Gallilleo (or whatever the next moon of saturn is)? \n\nThis is a rant. CVS integration
    in Eclipse has been excellent since the first days. SVN has been the replacement
    for everybody in the world for CVS for 4 years now? And still Eclipse can't provide
    us with the same level of SCM support for SVN. *That* is appalling and what I'm
    ranting about.\n\nI don't have time to start debugging every open source project
    I use and turns up a bug. I expect some things to just work, especially stuff
    that should have been around for 3 years and are supported by commercial open
    source developers (Eclipse is pay to play)"
- id: 57563
  author: Alain O'Dea
  author_email: alain.odea@gmail.com
  author_url: http://concise-software.blogspot.com/
  date: '2009-05-07 11:30:04 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-07 10:30:04 +0200'
  content: Our development team at Verafin uses SVN as our primary code reporitory
    and a majority of us use Eclipse with Subversive.  We have found the Subversive
    team provider to be a very effective tool for both managing change and diagnosing
    defects.  I've used Eclipse since 1.0 and Subclipse then Subversive since their
    original releases.  The install process could stand to be improved in 3.4 and
    has been in 3.5.  The Eclipse foundation listens and so does Polarion (the makers
    of Subversive).  Before venting public rage on their free products you should
    consider giving them constructive feedback in Bugzilla (which is integrated into
    Eclipse).  I've had my share of frustrations with both over the years, but through
    careful documentation and communication I have seen both teams resolve them in
    a timely fashion.
- id: 57564
  author: Andrea
  author_email: subscribe@andrea.polci.net
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-08 08:27:13 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-08 07:27:13 +0200'
  content: "I and my collegues (about 100 developers) use suversive in our projects.
    We hit some bug (many of wich solved in further releases) and the integration
    isn't as stable as the CVS one (as expected) but we didn't hit any serious problem,
    and for sure we never had problem with committing che target/classes directory.\r\nAre
    you sure you are using the svn:ignore properly?"
- id: 57565
  author: Jonathan
  author_email: jonathan.locke@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-09 18:50:27 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-09 17:50:27 +0200'
  content: "Well, just thank your lucky stars you're not using Perforce! Talk about
    a giant waste of time! And BTW, I don't reflexively hate Perforce. I'll use any
    good tool. And in fact, their support people are incredibly helpful. But their
    Eclipse plug-in is so bad (buggy, hard to use) that I actually had to stop working
    and spend the first couple weeks on my new job writing a subversion proxy for
    Perforce (which worked out very well). \r\n\r\nI don't have the problems you cite
    with Subclipse. Instead, I have a very annoying one which I can accept (especially
    if the other option is Perforce): every so many commits, it insists that I do
    an update for no reason. I do an update. Nothing changes (because I didn't need
    to do an update!). Then I commit and it works. It's a silly little dance that
    I truly don't understand, but I find it hard to believe it's a bug in subversion
    itself, so I'd hazard a guess that it must be the eclipse plugin."
- id: 57586
  author: Drakanor
  author_email: losdrakanos@gmx.net
  author_url: http://www.drakanor.de
  date: '2009-05-22 13:18:54 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-22 12:18:54 +0200'
  content: "Martijn, you took the words right out of my mouth. Since Subversion became
    popular and a de facto replacement for classic CVS, I quarreling with it's integration
    into Eclipse.\r\n\r\nFunnily enough, right now I'm getting an error for one of
    the Eclipse SVN packages while doing a scheduled update. Everything else updated
    fine. I sense bad faith! ;)"
- id: 57599
  author: Huherto
  author_email: humberto@itbrain.com.mx
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-05-27 14:34:12 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-05-27 13:34:12 +0200'
  content: What I would like to do is use TortoiseSVN within Eclipse.
- id: 57625
  author: M1EK
  author_email: mike@dahmus.org
  author_url: http://mdahmus.monkeysystems.com/blog/
  date: '2009-06-02 16:13:33 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-06-02 15:13:33 +0200'
  content: Sorry, but it DOES suck, hard; I've lost 3 hours so far today trying to
    reconnect projects to subversion repositories after the combination of Ganymede
    and subversion have lost their collective minds. It doesn't "just work" for anybody
    else at my company, either; the best we can hope for is "sort-of works some of
    the time".
- id: 57695
  author: Mark
  author_email: farnsworth2008@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-06-19 07:46:08 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-06-19 06:46:08 +0200'
  content: I like SVN but given the sorry state of Eclipse support I would frankly
    rather use CVS since the eclipse tooling is much better.
- id: 57706
  author: Carl
  author_email: carl@dragnon.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-06-24 23:30:22 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-06-24 22:30:22 +0200'
  content: "I agree with those who say it does NOT \"just work\" and ignore posts
    from anyone who appears to have no problem with it, since clearly many who do
    due diligence have problems.  And so do I.\r\n\r\nI have spent several hours many
    times researching how to do various things with Subclipse and Subversive.  In
    the end, I usually am able to get one or the other to install and do many things.\r\n\r\nBut
    there is one thing I cannot do.  Perhaps someone can point me at a resource to
    explain how.\r\n\r\nSpecs: Eclipse 3.5 \"Galileo\".  Mac OSX 10.5.7 Tiger.  The
    below applies to Subversive.  I've tried Subclipse with similar results too.\r\n\r\nI
    want my Eclipse project to be under ~/workspace/BLAH, but I want my SVN working
    copy OF A PARTICULAR FOLDER in the project to be at ~/who-cares/SVN/project-a.
    \ Because, that's where it's always been, and why should I move it to make Eclipse
    happy?  I don't care if the .project and all that are not under SVN - all the
    stuff I care about are in project-a\r\n\r\nSo, I've tried to do the \"New / Folder
    / Advanced ... / Link to folder in the file system\" to link to project-a.  The
    fact that the project-a folder is an SVN working copy is not detected.  There
    are posts on the new which basically say, this is expected because Linked Folder
    is an Eclipse concept ... blah blah.  This is a moot point.  The folder itself
    is under SVN - but the whole project is not.  I just want Subversive to recognize
    that and allow me to control THAT ONE FOLDER in my project.\r\n\r\nSo OK, instead
    of using Eclipse Linked Folders, I decide to do a symbolic link at the OS level
    - so I do \"ln -s ~/project-a project-a\" in the ~/workspace/BLAH (project) folder
    - same result."
- id: 57708
  author: Lynn
  author_email: lranen@hotmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-06-26 05:58:11 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-06-26 04:58:11 +0200'
  content: "Thank you for your rants !  I am a newbie to the whole Eclipse thing and
    struggling to work under the Eclipse/Spring/Maven/Tomcat stack with source in
    SVN.  I've had my whole env fubar 4 times (due to svn update) and today my local
    code got wiped out when I tried to get a branch out.  I've been working on svn
    for years (linux and windows) and never had so much pain.   \r\n\r\nI hope I can
    get it all working before I get fired :("
- id: 57723
  author: Don
  author_email: dfm2@cmu.edu
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-07-01 01:39:33 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-07-01 00:39:33 +0200'
  content: "I've used Subclipse in Ganymede and earlier (on Macintosh) for years.
    Decided to try Subversive as part of upgrading to Galileo, in the hopes that,
    despite what I'd read, it might be better. Can't say whether or not it works,
    as I can't get the damn thing to install at all. \r\n\r\nThere really is no excuse
    for this being so hard. Isn't hooking an IDE up to a SCM system absolutely central
    to its utility? Why is this such an unloved child, while so much work goes on
    on less important stuff every release? Isn't anyone embarrassed that it's easier
    to just go use the command line Subversion client than fighting with it inside
    the IDE?"
- id: 57732
  author: Gwen
  author_email: gwendal_13@hotmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-07-21 10:38:58 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-07-21 09:38:58 +0200'
  content: "Personnaly, I just tried to install Subclipse in Ganymede.\r\nNow, Eclipse
    doesn't start at all.\r\n\r\nI think I'm just going to reinstall Eclipse and not
    use subversion in it at all, I don't have the time to debug this. Tortoise will
    have to do."
- id: 57733
  author: MS
  author_email: marcelo.stucky@acns.de
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-07-22 09:58:54 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-07-22 08:58:54 +0200'
  content: "Hi there,\r\nwell this morning my php project disappeared because the
    SVN repository was not there (no idea why),\r\nAfter relinking the repository
    , renaming the Project folder, creating the project again by importing from SVN
    rep ,copying manually the Files\r\nand finally commiting i was able to reconstruct
    the state i left yesterday that sucks! \r\nthis happens some times before, i'm
    considering to use other SVN client out of Eclipse now.\r\nI'm using       PHP
    Development Tools (PDT) SDK  on Galilleo  and Subversion."
- id: 57803
  author: David
  author_email: maddisondavid@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-09-19 22:42:14 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-09-19 21:42:14 +0200'
  content: "I agree with this rant.  I've been a hard core user of Eclipse for several
    years using CVS and found it to be an excellent IDE.  Tonight I decided to work
    on an OpenSource project and needed to check out the SVN based code, and thus
    the nightmare of getting Subversion installed began (I'm using Ganymead).\r\n\r\nI'll
    admit that maybe some of my problems are due to the fact I'm use to working with
    CVS and don't really know anything about SVN, but really WHY doesn't the subversion
    plugin just install and work like the reliable old CVS one?\r\n\r\nAfter wasting
    several hours playing a delightful game of \"hunt the update site\" I now have
    error messages referring to SVN connectors, whatever the hell they are.  Following
    instructions I've managed to get everything installed but still the connector
    problems... Arrr!\r\n\r\nI'm amazed at how bad the support for SVN is within Eclipse,
    especially considering it's the new CVS and has been for several years."
- id: 57809
  author: "."
  author_email: derp@mailinator.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-10-03 00:52:52 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-10-02 23:52:52 +0200'
  content: I've gotten both Subclipse and Subversive working at times, but not with
    Galileo and Galileo SR1, Team-&gt;SVN disappears when other plugins (Eclipse or
    3rd party) are installed. (This happens with both Subversion plugins.) Lovely.
- id: 57810
  author: Nikita Prokopov
  author_email: prokopov@gmail.com
  author_url: http://tonsky.livejournal.com
  date: '2009-10-15 10:51:41 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2009-10-15 09:51:41 +0200'
  content: You may also need to add "exclude **/.svn" to all you source folders in
    java build path, so eclipse won't copy them to target/ and SVN plugin will not
    see them
- id: 57815
  author: Mo
  author_email: slowmo@hammer-tour.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-11-15 18:25:39 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2009-11-15 17:25:39 +0100'
  content: Yes, it is true... SVN support in Eclipse is just unusable. I've developed
    patterns of "try this three times, then do something else, try it again twice"
    and I am ever amazed how much things are messed up. And they do not improve ever!
    Every year or so I try it again, and after some time of agony go back to CVS,
    which may not be as cool, but at least works. This is so sad....
- id: 57816
  author: mielikki
  author_email: mielikki.software@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2009-11-17 03:57:51 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2009-11-17 02:57:51 +0100'
  content: I was looking around to see which Subversion plug-in to use with Eclipse
    and had a lot of fun reading the comments. I think I'll just stick with the command
    line svn for now. Sounds like it will save me some headaches.
- id: 57856
  author: ANB
  author_email: avantnoisebot@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2010-01-03 18:29:00 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2010-01-03 17:29:00 +0100'
  content: "My experience with Subclipse is that it's trickier to learn how to work
    with than it should be, and that if you don't take the time to learn its quirks,
    you can get yourself into trouble.  Otoh if you _do_ take that time, it works
    very well.  I've only run into two issues:  (1) Rarely but occasionally the Subclipse
    view will get out of sync with the checkout, a glitch that can be fixed simply
    by restarting Eclipse; and (2) Changing svn properties with Subclipse requires
    an extra update step, again to keep Subclipse in sync with the checkout.  Those
    two minor flaws aside, Subclipse works just as it should.\r\n\r\nSummary: not
    100% perfect, but highly usable IF you're willing to take a couple of hours to
    learn how to use it.\r\n\r\nI currently run Galileo \"IDE for Java Developers\"
    (+ updates) and  Subclipse 1.6.5 and CollabNet Merge Client 1.10.0, along with
    misc other 3rd party plugins. I run regularly on all three Eclipse platforms:
    linux (CentOS 5.x), windows (XP and 7) and osx (10.5 and 10.6).\r\n\r\nSo far
    I haven't found any reason to try Subversive, so no comments on that package."
- id: 57872
  author: Jon
  author_email: mashedup.henry@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2010-01-25 10:31:14 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2010-01-25 09:31:14 +0100'
  content: Install Netbeans and you have subversion. Install eclipse and read half
    the Internet trying to find a bleeding plugin scattered over the net that *might*
    work with your version. For the love of God please make subversion core. It's
    a freaking nightmare as it stands. And totally agree about the naming convention
    somebody wrote. Get rid of the marketing twats and just use version numbers.
- id: 60282
  author: Kiren
  author_email: kirenpillay1@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2011-03-11 16:25:54 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2011-03-11 15:25:54 +0100'
  content: "I've resorted to command-line, however the subclipse support in STS 2.5.2
    seems better than netbean's when it comes to merging and branching.\r\n\r\nOther
    than that, the basics are lacking."
- id: 60354
  author: Doug
  author_email: dshaden1974@yahoo.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2011-03-24 15:58:15 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2011-03-24 14:58:15 +0100'
  content: "You would think eclipse developers would be intelligent enough to integrate
    subversion into the IDE. Nope. You have to go find a plugin, then install the
    plugin, then watch the plugin crash.\r\n\r\nBottom line is that eclipse has terrible
    support for SVN and it doesn't \"just work\". The whole system is not user friendly,
    poorly design, slow, and full of exceptions and crashes. Eclipse fanboys want
    to tout that it \"just works\" for them but the reality is, it SUCKS."
- id: 60368
  author: Chris
  author_email: cmalley@pixelzoom.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2011-03-30 19:01:10 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2011-03-30 18:01:10 +0200'
  content: "Subversive is such an embarassment.  Buggy, useless/wrong installation
    instructions... Like going on a scavanger hunt anytime I need to upgrade.  And
    we've had to tolerate this for YEARS!  \r\n\r\nIf anyone at the Eclipse project
    is listening... You just lost me and my entire development team.  We're moving
    to IntelliJ IDEA."
- id: 61180
  author: Radu
  author_email: rsavutiu@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2011-10-11 09:48:03 +0200'
  date_gmt: '2011-10-11 08:48:03 +0200'
  content: "Nice page for ranting about Eclipse IDE shortcomings. So here goes:\r\nOn
    a past project I had to use CVS from Eclipse.\r\nBut i REALLY want to use Subversion.
    And no, I do not need or have time to learn GIT, or to use other complex tools
    like Perforce.\r\nI just want SVN to work with Eclipse. \r\nAlso, the updates
    are horrible on Eclipse, I agree with the opinions above. I just delete and reinstall
    new builds every months...\r\nIs it so damn hard?"
- id: 62738
  author: John
  author_email: johnny33423@mailinator.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2012-11-13 09:34:46 +0100'
  date_gmt: '2012-11-13 08:34:46 +0100'
  content: Used to working with Microsoft Team Foundation Service, I am horrified
    by the state of Eclipse/Subversion. It may that I am ignorant, but simple things
    like committing and resolving conflicts result in internal errors and shitloads
    of bugs coming out. Even if I am ignorant, that's no way to present errors.
---
<p>Eclipse is a great IDE, but the state of subversion support is appalling. Both subclipse and subversive are buggy as hell, and I'd rather not touch either of them with a 10 feet pole.</p>
<p>Installing subversive is a futile exercise in "find all the update sites and correct plugin selection". Subversive also is unable to keep the target/classes directory out of the synchronize view, which makes committing changes rather challenging.</p>
<p>Installing subclipse is much better than installing subversive: just add subclipse's update site and install all plugins. No hunting for external sites, and no chance of installing the wrong stuff (I'm on OS X, so the win32 HL binaries are of no use to me). But again the team synchronize view is borked. This time subclipse won't remove all updated files, double clicking on a folder throws an exception, etc.</p>
<p>I know that GIT is the SCM du jour, but please can someone at eclipse.org take note and finally implement a working, pleasant integration with subversion? Is that so much to ask after 5 years of Subversion availability?</p>
